-- Name: James Silcott
-- Homework: ISTA322-Silcott
-- Date: August 13, 2020


Chapter 2:
1. What is the difference between Visual Studio and Visual Studio Code?
Visual Studio is the
traditional development environment for .NET applications, 
and it offers an enormous range of tools and features for developing all
sorts of applications. But it can be resource-hungry and slow, ]
and some of the features are so determined to be helpful they get in the
way of development.
Visual Studio Code is a light-weight alternative that doesn’t have the bells 
and whistles of Visual Studio but is perfectly capable
of handling ASP.NET Core development.



2. What is LocalDB?
This is the database component that I will be using to store data in later chapters.



3. What do these commands do?
dotnet new globaljson --sdk-version 3.1.101 --output FirstProject
dotnet new mvc --no-https --output FirstProject --framework netcoreapp3.1

The first command creates a folder named FirstProject and adds to it a file named global.json, 
which specifies the version
of .NET Core that the project will use; this ensures you get the expected results when following the examples. 
The second command
creates a new ASP.NET Core project. The .NET Core SDK includes a range of templates for starting new projects, 
and the mvc
template is one of the options available for ASP.NET Core applications. This project template creates a project 
that is configured for
the MVC Framework, which is one of the application types supported by ASP.NET Core. Don’t be intimidated by the 
idea of choosing
a framework, and don’t worry if you have not heard of MVC—by the end of the book, you will understand the 
features that each
offers and how they fit together



4. What command do you use to build an ASP.NET project from the command line? What command
do you use to run the project?

You can also start the application from the command line. Open a new PowerShell command prompt from the Windows Start
menu; navigate to the FirstProject project folder, which is the folder that contains the FirstProject.csproj file; 
and run the
command shown in Listing

dotnet run

5. What is the purpose of an endpoint?

In an ASP.NET Core application, incoming requests are handled by endpoints. 
The endpoint that produced the response in Figure 2-17
is an action, which is a method that is written in C#.



6. What is a controller?
An action is defined in a controller, which is a C# class that is derived from the
Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.Controller class, the built-in controller base class.




7. Where are actions dened?
The project template added a controller to the Controllers folder to help jump-start development. 
The controller is defined
in the class file named HomeController.cs. Controller classes contain a name followed by the word Controller,
 which means that
when you see a file called HomeController.cs, you know that it contains a controller called Home, which is the 
default controller that
is used in ASP.NET Core applications.




8. What is the purpose of the routing system?
The ASP.NET Core routing system is responsible for selecting the endpoint that will handle an HTTP request. A route is a rule that is
used to decide how a request is handled. When the project was created, a default rule was created to get started





9. Assume that your ASP.NET application runs in a browser with a URL like http://localhost:5000.
List the three default routes congured by the ASP.NET Core routing system.
• /
• /Home
• /Home/Index





10. What does the ViewResult object instruct ASP.NET Core to do?
When I return a ViewResult object from an action method, I am instructing ASP.NET Core to render a view. I create the
ViewResult by calling the View method, specifying the name of the view that I want to use, which is MyView. If you run the
application, you can see ASP.NET Core trying to find the view, as shown by the error message displayed in Figure 2-19.





11. How does ASP.NET Core know what View is to be called from an action method?
reads for teh same name of the method	




12. What is the job of an action method?
calls the view





13. What is a view model?
The view model in this example is a string, and it is provided to the view as the second argument to the View method.



