-- Name: James Silcott
-- Homework: ISTA322-Silcott
-- Date: Sept 10, 2020


Chapter 7:
1. For the Sports Store application, what requirements does the author identify for implementation?
create an online
product catalog that customers can browse by category and page, a shopping cart where users can add and remove products, and
a checkout where customers can enter their shipping details. I will also create an administration area that includes create, read,
update, and delete (CRUD) facilities for managing the catalog, and I will protect it so that only logged-in administrators can make
changes.




2. What is the purpose of the Startup class in ASP.NET Core applications?

The Startup class is responsible for configuring the ASP.NET Core application.





3. What is the purpose of the CofitureServices method in the Startup class?

The ConfigureServices method is used to set up objects, known as services, that can be used throughout the application and
that are accessed through a feature called dependency injection







4. What is a request pipeline and how does it work?

ASP.NET Core receives HTTP requests and passes them along a request pipeline, which is populated with middleware
components registered in the Configure method. Each middleware component is able to inspect requests, modify them, generate
a response, or modify the responses that other components have produced. The request pipeline is the heart of ASP.NET Core, and
I describe it in detail in Chapter 12, where I also explain how to create custom middleware components







5. What is the View Start class and how do we use it?

The view start file tells Razor to use a layout file in the HTML that it generates, reducing the amount of duplication in views. To
create the view, add a Razor layout named _Layout.cshtml to the Views/Shared folder






6. What is the feature in ASP.NET Core that generates the database schema for us? What does the file
created by this feature contain?


Entity Framework Core is able to generate the schema for the database using the data model classes through a feature called
migrations.

One of the file names will be a timestamp followed by _Initial.cs, and this is the class that will be
used to create the initial schema for the database. If you examine the contents of this file, you can see how the Product model class
has been used to create the schema.




7. When ASP.NET Core sees that a controller instance needs to be created, and that the controller object
required another object that iplements some interface, how does it determine which interface should b
e implemented?

When ASP.NET Core needs to create a new instance of the HomeController class to handle an HTTP request, it will inspect the
constructor and see that it requires an object that implements the IStoreRepository interface. To determine what implementation
class should be used, ASP.NET Core consults the configuration in the Startup class, which tells it that EFStoreRepository should be
used and that a new instance should be created for every request.









8. Explain how the paging mechanism works. How does the application calculate the number of pages
required? How is this data passed to the view?


pagination so that the view displays a smaller number of products on a page, and the user can move from page to
page to view the overall catalog


To support the tag helper, I am going to pass information to the view about the number of pages available, the current page, and
the total number of products in the repository. The easiest way to do this is to create a view model class, which is used specifically
to pass data between a controller and a view. Create a Models/ViewModels folder in the SportsStore project, add to it a class file
named PagingInfo.cs,




9. How does the book describe dependency injection? How is dependency injection used?

ASP.NET Core creates a new EFStoreRepository object and uses it
to invoke the HomeController constructor to create the controller object that will process the HTTP request.
This is known as dependency injection, and its approach allows the HomeController object to access the application’s repository
through the IStoreRepository interface without knowing which implementation class has been configured







10. How are the routes in MapDefaultControllerRoute() method arranged? Why is this important?


the routing system processes routes in the order they are listed, and I need the new route to take precedence over the
existing one.
This is the only alteration required to change the URL scheme for product pagination. ASP.NET Core and the routing function
are tightly integrated, so the application automatically reflects a change like this in the URLs used by the application















